what's up guys Scott Martin here talking
about jigs today
you know jigs is a way to catch big fish
for some reason Big Bass really prefer a
jig when I'm looking for that big bite
in the tournament a lot of times I
resort to flipping a jig and heavy cover
around stomps and bushes lay downs or
whatever but there's different kinds of
jigs what kind of jigs are they there's
swimming jigs like we have here which
I'll talk about later on another tip we
have football jigs that we have here
that are totally different you're going
to cast those out but the kind of jigs
I'm talking about now or you're flipping
jigs like we have here just your
standard heavy duty flipping jigs they
come in lots of different shapes and
sizes but for the most part I prefer a
jig that has a nice Archy style head to
it like you have here or this one here
nice flat flat little side to it the
flat side jigs are nice for skip skip
them of underdogs you know you think
about a jig you think about heavy cover
again shoreline lay downs flipping them
under docks flipping them in grass all
types of different ways and places to
fish a jig the time of the year to fish
a jig pretty much year-round you know
the winter time is a great time to fish
a jig sometimes as bass really prefer a
bigger bulkier bait like a jig versus
say a soft plastic type crawdad in the
summer time I flip a lot of jigs or
castle jigs out deep and in the
springtime they're absolutely deadly up
around the shallow cover where these
fish might be staging up the spawn what
makes a really good flippin jig number
one you want to find a jig that has
again a nice nice Archy style head but a
big heavy-duty hook you know you want a
nice heavy-duty hook because you're
going to be fishing these jigs on bigger
rods you know you're gonna be fishing
these rods like on like here I have
behind me my 73 jig rod it's a great
heavy action it's a great one it's an
Akuma TCS rod or even going a little bit
bigger like when I'm flipping around
heavy cover like you're on Okeechobee
these big heavy-duty jigs flipping on
big seven-and-a-half foot to 711 big rod
heavy action again you know when you're
fishing a jig you want to fish them on
on your bigger rods and your stiffer
actions because you have to drive that
hook through that weed guard now that
weed guard keeps a jig from getting hung
up in the grass too much and it really
keeps it pretty free from getting hung
up in the logs and stuff but again what
I like to do with jigs is I like to flip
them
in those hard-to-reach places I like to
flip them up in the middle of that lay
down or way up under that dock in that
shady part part there where nobody's
really got to yet I'll skip that jig way
up underneath there and work it on out
now how do I work a jig real simple
again a jig is going to imitate a
crawdad some are working along the
bottom I'm going to flip that jig out
there let it go down the bottom and
basically lift the rod tip up not moving
the bait with the reel but moving it
with the rod real similar worm fishing
move the bait with the rod okay move it
with the rod real up your slack and
again move it with the rod back to the
boat and the great thing about a jig is
because it's so weedless it comes to a
lot of that cover you can kind of fish
it through some of those hard-to-reach
places
and again comes out of the snags real
well now how do I like to rig up my jig
you know they come like they come just
standard like that with a hook but you
have to do something to them to make
them really work really good you want to
put a trailer on the jig now right here
I've got a bruiser intruder it's a great
little bait I like to match them up to
the color so with this let's say I'm
fishing a black and blue jig like we
have here I'm going to take that trailer
and I'm going to thread that trailer on
there take it put it on the hook
push that weed guard down push that
trailer up run it on up look how much
bigger it makes that profile now that's
a nice looking jig there again with that
nice little trailer you basically want
to match your trailer to the color of
the jig if I'm fishing a dark jig like
this which again in dark water muddy
water I'm going to fish a black and blue
or dark color in clean and clear water
real clear water I'm going to fish for
more natural colors like your Browns and
your greens and again if I'm going to
match it up and match it up with a brown
trailer on this one instead of a black
and blue trailer there's some other type
trailers too you've got your chunk style
trailers like zoom makes it's a nice one
it's got a nice little flaps on it and
basically there's two ways to rig that
one way with that with that flapper
style style trailer you can go right
through the middle and have it hang down
for a larger profile like we have here
or which a lot of times I like to do
this
I like the thread that trailer on there
like I did before thread it on there and
push it up a little bit makes it just a
little bit more compact so that way the
skirt is up there the tentacles of the
trailer are hanging out really gives
that night that made a really nice look
now what kind of line am I going to fish
a jig on a flipping style jig or this
type of jig here I'm fishing on heavier
line again 15 17 20 pound test
fluorocarbon is my line of choice and
occasionally like here on Lake
Okeechobee or heavy grass lakes I'm
going to throw straight braids you know
that's basically what you're going to do
with the jig you know I'm going to flip
it and heavy cover work it around
structure pieces get into those
hard-to-reach places if you're looking
for a big bite try a jig you'll catch a
big old fish stay tuned we got some more
tips coming up we're going to talk about
swimmin jigs we're going to talk about
football jigs and before you leave make
sure to subscribe down below thanks for
watching guys
yeah